Add term frequency functions to score script query (#4988)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _query-dsl/specialized/script-score.md

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Term frequency functions

> Term frequency functions expose term-level statistics in a script score context. You can use these statistics to implement custom information retrieval and ranking algorithms like query-time multiplicative or additive score boosting by popularity. To apply a term frequency function, call one of the following Painless methods:

Reviewer: There's `script context` https://github.com/noCharger/OpenSearch/blob/main/server/src/main/java/org/opensearch/script/ScriptContext.java and each script has their own context instance https://github.com/noCharger/OpenSearch/blob/main/server/src/main/java/org/opensearch/script/ScoreScript.java#L287. I would say expose them in score script `source`.

- `int termFreq(String <field-name>, String <term>)`: Retrieves the term frequency within a field for a specific term.

> - `float tf(String <field-name>, String <term>)`: Calculates the term frequency/inverse document frequency (TF/IDF) for a specific term within a field.

Reviewer: There's some setup for using `tf`, without them you will get errors like this:

```
{
  "error": {
    "root_cause": [
      {
        "type": "unsupported_operation_exception",
        "reason": "unsupported_operation_exception: requires a TFIDFSimilarity (such as ClassicSimilarity)"
      }
    ],
    "type": "search_phase_execution_exception",
    "reason": "all shards failed",
    "phase": "query",
    "grouped": true,
    "failed_shards": [
      {
        "shard": 0,
        "index": "test",
        "node": "sQkgvgQWRT2pfI4leTC8lg",
        "reason": {
          "type": "script_exception",
          "reason": "runtime error",
          "script_stack": [
            "org.opensearch.ExceptionsHelper.convertToOpenSearchException(ExceptionsHelper.java:86)",
            "org.opensearch.script.ScoreScriptUtils$TF.tf(ScoreScriptUtils.java:113)",
            "tf(params.field, params.term)",
            "                       ^---- HERE"
          ],
          "script": "tf(params.field, params.term)",
          "lang": "painless",
          "position": {
            "offset": 23,
            "start": 0,
            "end": 29
          },
          "caused_by": {
            "type": "exception",
            "reason": "java.lang.UnsupportedOperationException: requires a TFIDFSimilarity (such as ClassicSimilarity)",
            "caused_by": {
              "type": "unsupported_operation_exception",
              "reason": "unsupported_operation_exception: requires a TFIDFSimilarity (such as ClassicSimilarity)"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ],
    "caused_by": {
      "type": "unsupported_operation_exception",
      "reason": "unsupported_operation_exception: requires a TFIDFSimilarity (such as ClassicSimilarity)"
    }
  },
  "status": 400
}
```

Here's some suggestions.

1. Setup the Similarity Model:
You need to set the similarity model of the field you're working with Ex: ClassicSimilarity, TFIDFSimilarity). Make sure the model is supported under current OpenSearch Version

To do this, you can update the mappings of your index:

```
PUT /test/_mapping
{
  "properties": {
    "<field_name>": {
      "type": "text",
      "similarity": "classic"
    }
  }
}
```

2. Reindex your data for existing indices

Author: When I tried to set similarity to "classic", I got an error that suggests to use "BM25" as similarity: 

```
{
  "error": {
    "root_cause": [
      {
        "type": "illegal_argument_exception",
        "reason": "The [classic] similarity may not be used anymore. Please use the [BM25] similarity or build a custom [scripted] similarity instead."
      }
    ],
    "type": "illegal_argument_exception",
    "reason": "The [classic] similarity may not be used anymore. Please use the [BM25] similarity or build a custom [scripted] similarity instead."
  },
  "status": 400
}
```

Reviewer: Good catch, would you create an issue in OpenSearch repo or I can do it too.

Author: I can create an issue

Author: Done. The OpenSearch issue is https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/9958

- `long totalTermFreq(String <field-name>, String <term>)`: Retrieves the total term frequency within a field for a specific term.
- `long sumTotalTermFreq(String <field-name>)`: Retrieves the sum of total term frequencies within a field.

#### Example

The following query calculates the score as the total term frequency for each field in the `fields` list, multiplied by the `multiplier` value:

```json
GET /demo_index_v1/_search
{
  "query": {
    "function_score": {
      "query": {
        "match_all": {}
      },
      "script_score": {
        "script": {
          "source": """
            for (int x = 0; x < params.fields.length; x++) {
              String field = params.fields[x];
              if (field != null) {
                return params.multiplier * totalTermFreq(field, params.term);
              }
            }
            return params.default_value;
            
          """,
          "params": {
              "fields": ["title", "description"],
              "term": "ai",
              "multiplier": 2,

>               "default_value": 1

Reviewer: nit picking: it's more consistent use the same doc schema for all examples in this page

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Term frequency functions

> Term frequency functions expose term-level statistics in the score script source. You can use these statistics to implement custom information retrieval and ranking algorithms like query-time multiplicative or additive score boosting by popularity. To apply a term frequency function, call one of the following Painless methods:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Term frequency functions expose term-level statistics in the score script source. You can use these statistics to implement custom information retrieval and ranking algorithms, like query-time multiplicative or additive score boosting by popularity. To apply a term frequency function, call one of the following Painless methods:
```

- `int termFreq(String <field-name>, String <term>)`: Retrieves the term frequency within a field for a specific term.
- `float tf(String <field-name>, String <term>)`: Calculates the term frequency/inverse document frequency (TF/IDF) for a specific term within a field.
- `long totalTermFreq(String <field-name>, String <term>)`: Retrieves the total term frequency within a field for a specific term.
- `long sumTotalTermFreq(String <field-name>)`: Retrieves the sum of total term frequencies within a field.

#### Using `tf`

> Before using `tf`, you must set the similarity model on the field for which you want to retrieve term frequency:

Reviewer 3: Did I keep the meaning here?
```suggestion
Before using `tf`, you must set the similarity model for the field whose term frequency you want to retrieve:
```

1. Ensure that the similarity model is supported by the version of OpenSearch you're using. For example, the following request sets the similarity to `BM25` on the `description` field:

  ```json
  PUT /blogs/_mapping
  {
    "properties": {
      "description": {
        "type": "text",
        "similarity": "BM25"
      }
    }
  }
  ```
  {% include copy-curl.html %}

1. Reindex your data for the existing indexes.

#### Example

> The following query calculates the score as the total term frequency for each field in the `fields` list, multiplied by the `multiplier` value:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following query calculates the score as the total term frequency for each field in the `fields` list multiplied by the `multiplier` value:
```
